# SD optimal portfolios

SD stands for *Standard Deviation* (square root of variance).
It will play the role of dispersion measure. In many respects, SD and MV
optimal portfolios are equivalent. However, the Sharpe ratio induced by
SD dispersion measure has the original
expression of Sharpe ratio introduced in 1966 by William Forsyth Sharpe as a
measure for risk-adjusted investment performance.

The portfolio standard deviation (volatility) is defined as:

\begin{equation*}
	\sigma = \sqrt{w^T C w},
\end{equation*}

where:

* $w$ is the vector of portfolio weights,
* $C$ is the covariance matrix between portfolio components.

> Note: In our case $C$ is estimated from historical observations of
portfolio components rate of returns.

> Note: SD is a proper dispersion measure while MV is not (MV violates
the positive homogeneity axiom).

> Note: the Sharpe ratio defined as $\beta = (E(r)- \mu) / \sigma$ is
different than MV-Sharpe ratio defined as $\beta_{MV} = (E(r)- \mu) / \sigma^2$.
Therefore the Sharpe and MV-Sharpe optimal portfolios have different
weights.

The following portfolio optimization strategies are available:
* Minimization of dispersion for targeted expected rate of return,
* Maximization of Sharpe ratio,
* Minimization of the inverse of Sharpe ratio,
* Minimum dispersion portfolio,
* Maximization of expected rate of return for a risk vale generated by a
benchmark portfolio (*e.g.* same risk as equal weighted portfolio),
* Maximization of expected rate of returns for fixed risk-aversion factor.

There are 2 support classes:

* **SDAnalyzer** : computes the portfolio weights and performs in-sample
analysis,
* **Port_SD** : performs portfolio back testing, out-of-sample analysis.
