EVaR stands for *Entropic Value at Risk*. It is a rather new risk
measure, yet to be adopted by practitioners.
The EVaR dispersion measure can be defined as

\begin{equation*}
	{\rm EVaR}_\alpha(r) = \inf_u \left( u \ln \frac{1}{1 - \alpha}
	E\left[ e^{-\frac{r}{u}} \right] \right),
\end{equation*}

where $\alpha$ is the confidence level and
$\bar r$ is the detrended rate of return, ${\bar r} = r - E[r]$.
The theoretical derivation of EVaR is based on the
[Generic Chernoff Bound](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chernoff_bound).
Here are a few important properties of EVaR.

* EVaR is a coherent risk measure,
* It is a rather conservative risk measure, in the sense that
	for the same confidence level, $\alpha$, we have
\begin{equation*}
	{\rm EVaR}_\alpha(r) \gt
	{\rm CVaR}_\alpha(r) \gt
	{\rm VaR}_\alpha(r).
\end{equation*}
* For any ${\rm EVaR}_\alpha$ an effective confidence level $\alpha^*$
  can be defined
  as the confidence level $\alpha^*$ of a VaR measure with the same
	value as EVaR, *i.e.*, ${\rm EVaR}_\alpha = {\rm VaR}_{\alpha^*}$.
	Consequently, a typical value of $\alpha$ is around $0.65$ (corresponding
	to $\alpha^*$ around $0.95$).
* From a numerical point of view, the evaluation of EVaR can be formulated
  either as an exponential cone programming or as a nonlinear convex
	optimization problem.

**azapy** implements a generalization of EVaR,
namely the *mixture EVaR* (mEVaR).

mEVaR is a superposition of EVaR
measures for different confidence levels. The single EVaR measure is a
particular case of mEVaR.

The mEVaR dispersion measure is defined as

\begin{equation*}
	{\rm mEVaR} = \sum_{l=1}^L {\cal K}_l \times {\rm EVaR}_{\alpha_l},
\end{equation*}

where:

* $L$ is the number of individual EVaR's,
* $\{{\cal K}_l\}_{l=1,\cdots,L}$ is a set of positive coefficients normalized to unit,
* $\alpha_l$ are distinct EVaR confidence levels.

> Note: a typical choice could be $L=3$, ${\cal K}_l=1/3\ \ \forall l$,
and $\alpha=\{0.7, 0.65, 0.6\}$

The following portfolio optimization strategies are available:
* Minimization of risk for targeted expected rate of return value,
* Minimum risk portfolio,
* Maximization of expected rate of return for a risk vale generated by a
benchmark portfolio (*e.g.* same risk as equal weighted portfolio),
* Maximization of expected rate of return for fixed risk-aversion factor,
* Maximization of mEVaR-Sharpe ratio,
* Minimization of the inverse of mEVaR-Sharpe ratio,
* Maximum diversified portfolio <span style="color:blue">(beta version)</span>,
* Maximization of expected rate of return for a diversification factor value
generated by a benchmark portfolio (e.g., same diversification factor as
equal weighted portfolio) <span style="color:blue">(beta version)</span>,
* Maximization of diversification factor for an expected rate of return
generated by a benchmark portfolio (e.g., same diversification factor as
equal weighted portfolio) <span style="color:blue">(beta version)</span>.


There are 2 support classes:

* [**EVaRAnalyzer**](azapy.Analyzers.EVaRAnalyzer.EVaRAnalyzer):
computes the portfolio weights and performs in-sample analysis,
* [**Port_EVaR**](azapy.PortOpt.Port_EVaR.Port_EVaR) :
performs portfolio backtesting, out-of-sample analysis.
